and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actionable
B2 marketing website SEO tips useful
podcasts goodies and more you can give
it a shot over at businessgrowth dot
email
so joining me today I've got Blake
destroys it Blake is the founder over at
full media Blake welcome to show sir how
are we
Good Sam and I gotta say to plug your
newsletter I saw the what was the
subject line like marketing Legend come
across my like inbox this morning and
gave it a red through dude newsletter
I've been like subscribed for like six
months I like I love the newsletter
appreciate that man very very kind of
you to say it didn't even pay you to say
it so that that's that's a top man right
there but today Blake we're gonna be
talking about the big battle pay search
versus SEO The Ultimate Showdown which
is best is one better which should be to
be companies investing and we're gonna
be talking through all of that and much
more
before we do Blake for anyone that's not
so familiar with paid search or SEO what
would be your quick one-liner
description of each
yeah so for paid search if you're not
familiar with it like paid search would
be on you know uh the two primary search
engines that most bdb companies that
come across so Google search and Bing
search and it's primarily Google search
that everyone focuses on but for paid
search you are paying Google to show up
as a sponsored result once somebody is
making a search and so like you'll be
one of those sponsored listings at the
very top of your search engine result
page whether you're on your desktop or
mobile and on the organic side you're
going to be the results just below those
paid results so same thing you're going
to be uh showing up with somebody
searching for you but it's just a
different way to go about showing up on
the paid side you obviously pay the
organic side there's a lot that goes
into that so those are my probably three
sentence explanations on that Sam
and most importantly
which is better for B2B companies
that's that that's the million or if you
look at Google search business hundreds
of millions of dollar uh question but I
think for me be curious to get your take
on how you advise clients at web choice
but for me when a client comes and they
want to think about doing paid search I
think it comes down to a couple of
things
so the first piece is you know what
space are you playing in so for example
if there's a company that's you know
going after a really expensive category
like CRM or there's a lot of software
categories that are just really
expensive then it's a question of okay
like how much budget do you think you'd
have to allocate to paid search and does
that make sense for where you're at as a
business right now and how much funding
you have all those different things
so I think that's one big piece is like
what space are you in like are you going
to be competing in the CRM category
which is just really bloody or are you
going to be in a kind of a more Niche
category where there might be some green
field so I guess the first thing for
paid search the second thing is are you
trying to establish a new category are
you already in an established category
so for companies that are trying to
establish like a whole new category
there's nobody searching for what you do
they're probably searching for adjacent
Solutions or things that are like what
you do but nobody's searching for what
you specifically do so if you're trying
to create this whole new movement right
like drift back in the day trying to do
conversational marketing
their search demand their research
demand for chat Bots or like you know
website chat Bots but not conversational
marketing so understanding which space
you play and how your position is key so
I'd say those are like the big two
things that I start with like what
category are you in does it make sense
to compete there and what does the
search volume look like for what you're
trying to play at and if you're trying
to create a new category this paid
search really makes sense
um yeah yeah some some good points
um like you say some some sectors can
just be super expensive when it comes to
paid search when it comes to Google ads
and in that case is there a is there
like a line where you can draw off
whether it's worth or not like you say
for example with CRM if you're just
going after generic keywords around CRM
or similar the cost per click is going
to be so high several pounds several
dollars just to click through and unless
you are a massive brand or you've got a
ton of cash ton of funding
is it even worth going after these when
they're when they're so competitive you
what if you are fairly new or have
limited resources budget what should be
the considerations there
so I think in like in like that specific
you know scenario or like example I
think it'd be a question of
you know you're probably going to be
more Niche down than just going after
just that broad category like you're
going to be like CRM for contractors or
whatever it might be so I think that's a
big piece that like the company strategy
level that bleeds into your paid search
strategy
and and the organic search side too
because you get your take there but
um I think that's a piece of it so like
knowing like how you know if you're
Niche down does that make sense which
most companies should be at least if
they're just starting out and then um on
the other side it's just thinking how
much upside does this bet an investment
have for our business so if there's a
lot of search volume for it might be a
really good bet to try right when you
consider it against other options but I
would say like segment like look at your
like positioning like not just going
after that like head turn but going
after something you feel like you might
actually have a chance to win in
and a paid search strategy level and
then
um yeah kind of like looking at uh the
other piece there
yeah yeah and and the other point she
raised were yeah looking at cost per
click looking at your overall budget and
also making sure if the um
the category that you're going after is
a mature category I.E are people aware
of your solution are people actually
searching for what you do or is it
something brand new I.E you're the first
in your Market or people aren't really
aware of the problem that your offer is
fixing so if that is the case if it is a
brand new market brand new offer does
that mean that in your thoughts paid
search isn't necessarily the best route
to go down
I mean it depends right depends how new
with what you're going after is
um for example I worked with a series B
uh martech client back when I um was
working in agency refined labs and you
know when I was working at uh with this
client they were in a space where what
they were trying to create there was no
search volume for it and really just
what they were doing there wasn't like a
good term for what the uh you know
software they're putting together was
doing and so you know we ran a couple
different experiments
um some were against you know how they
would replace like a physical agency
others were against
um you know kind of like similar tools
but not quite the same and really we
just never got to a point where we could
make like the math work from just like
the top of getting conversions and then
like you know you have to have enough
conversion volume to justify like having
a full funnel like we couldn't even
really fill the funnel with that
strategy so I think like when you're
creating a category like going back to
the drift example from a couple years
ago like there's probably a case for
them in the chatbot category and I'm
sure they did from a paid search
perspective to do that but I think it
depends on what you're doing I don't
know how do you how do you view that Sam
not far off agreeing really
um yeah and I said I say much the same
in fact we did a podcast a sort of
episode a while back on when not to do
SEO and a lot of the points you just
raised I was I was the same really like
if you are in a brand new Carriage these
days not that many companies are let's
face it most right companies that are
started are in a fairly mature Market
um unless they're trying to break
through with a groundbreaking idea or
concept most of the time you're in a
vertical you're in an industry where
people are aware there's some kind of
solution or offer to the problem that
you fix or the results you bring
um so it's not like a massively common
thing and usually if you are breaking
into a new market you're well aware of
the challenges ahead of time
um so in short what I'm saying is yeah
yeah I agree with a lot of the points a
lot of people don't know UFO your the
solution you're you provide is out there
then yes there's probably not that much
demand to capture with Google search I.E
paid search organic search might not be
the best use of your time yes there are
are tricks you can do with SEO or best
practices I.E you could go higher up the
funnel where people are searching for
questions around what you do you could
look to perhaps get onto some competitor
searches if people are looking for
alternatives to their current provider
Etc yes but like you mentioned might not
be the best use of spend and you might
be better off investing your dollars
your ad dollars or your resources into
educating the market and trying to make
them aware of what you fix or that there
is even a solution out there before you
then look to capture demand that you've
created over time
um
so that's probably what I'd say in that
and I don't know if you agree
no I I agree with that because I think
it's one of those things like I think he
called it out well it's like where do
your resources make the most sense like
could you make like paid organic search
work in those cases like probably like
not maybe not super well but you could
make it work but it's like what else
could you be doing with those resources
and sometimes like you said it's like
it's not a good fit but then there's
other times where it is a really good
fit like not necessarily in the category
creation piece but when you're in an
established space it can be a really
good fit so totally agree with what
you're saying and I think that's a
decision like I don't think a lot of
people think of it in that framing but
when you think of it from like your
customers perspective like of course
they're not going to be searching for
what we're doing because what we're
doing is new and they don't know to
search for that so we should like focus
on educating them versus trying to like
capture them when they're already
looking
for sure and let's flip it on its head
when is when is a good time to to think
about investing in paid search
yeah that's a good question so I think
the best time to think about investing
in paid search is like we kind of talked
about it's when there is you know
um established category there's already
searched for what you're
um offering and so people are already
kind of aware of the space you're
playing in so you know they're looking
for like payroll software provider those
different types of things right where
they're already aware
um where there's competition but not too
much like obviously if there's no
competition that's great that probably
means there's not a whole lot of search
volume there
um so you kind of want that like
Goldilocks of enough competition uh
where there's enough you know meaningful
searches happening there but also the
same time you don't want too much where
it's like so competitive and so bloody
where you just have to spend so much
money to acquire a customer like I think
it's like that's like the space you want
to be in and then
um not only do you want the search
volume to be there but I think what you
also need to have happen is like
Your solution is a is a good fit for it
and that your business model makes sense
for search right because if you're a
really low
um like a really low ACV software tool
or you're like a kind of a lower margin
Services business like yeah
it can make it really challenging on the
paid search side sometimes especially
for those really competitive
um those really like competitive
keywords yeah I want to get into kind of
choosing the best keywords and dive a
bit deeper on that that in a sec
um but yeah you're right in regards to
actually having a product or a solution
or a service that makes sense for paid
search
um what are some things that perhaps
people should consider in terms of
I guess weighing up that cost that
they're going to be paying per click in
terms of is there actual ticket size
worth of the investment
yeah I think it you know it's part of it
just like it says
relatively simple math problem I guess
or equation rather but it's kind of
looking in a couple ways so like the
first way is
um I don't I couldn't like throw out
like a dollar amount like you need to be
you know charging X to do paid search
right because it all depends on what are
your cost per click and then uh for your
cost per click how many you know people
does it take to get to your uh website
to convert them so then once your CPA
but I think what it comes down to is
like the core equation is saying okay
you know we're paying this cost per
click and this we have this percentage
of click-through rate so we have this
many people coming to the website
um we paid x amount for it of those
people we convert y amount and so we
know our conversion rate's three percent
right we get 100 people come to our site
three of them uh you know request a demo
and then you can kind of like build out
your funnel math and track it throughout
your CRM of those leads that are tagged
from Paid search and you can just kind
of see if it makes sense right you just
look at last touch who came through paid
search okay so we I had you know 20
demos from Paid search the H cost a
thousand dollars of those 20 demos we
had one person become a customer that
person cost twenty thousand dollars to
become a customer we have a fifty
thousand dollar
um you know average contract value
software piece that math makes sense
right like we we get that paid back in
five months with just that raw contract
value on ad spend that would make sense
on the flip side if you have like a
hundred dollar tool or like you know say
it's 150 bucks a year and it costs you
500 to acquire them and you've got like
basically a three year payback period on
that well then that's a different story
all right like if you're funded well
like maybe that doesn't matter to you
and Acquisitions all that matters but if
you're trying to be efficient like you
know that's it's not not as efficient as
it could be right so I think those are
like the considerations I think of Sam
go to yeah I mean that will make sense
right
um kind of working out how much bottom
line it costs you to acquire that
customer at the end and then if that
evens out nicely with your profit
margins against what they're going to be
paying per month per year right per
contract value whatever that that
applies to your business
um
but to work out those stats initially
does there have to be some kind of
experimentation
oh I I think so like I think you've got
to have
you know what I always advise clients on
like we're actively working on clients
with is like you need to establish your
own benchmarks and it goes back to that
placing bets and like we were talking
about the resourcing side if you think
it's a good like you know if you look at
all your options and you you know look
at those identifiers we talked about
search volume competitiveness
um you know what category you're playing
in who who's searching all those
different things you think it's a good
bet I 100 encourage
um companies to Benchmark their own data
and so like to go out experiment tasks
and see like okay we're gonna make a
strategic bet this quarter for marketing
and we're going to test out paid search
or for this half of the year now I think
the trick with that
um is number one letting enough time to
learn and iterate and improve is
challenging and then number two is if
you don't have the experiment set up
right from the beginning you could get
like a false result where you know
because experiment wasn't set up
properly because you weren't going to
write keywords you didn't have you know
a good landing page like it's deemed a
failure when in reality like it was just
a tough setup for it wasn't a correct
setup from the beginning so I definitely
think people should experiment but count
with those two caveats yeah let's talk
about some of the foundations in a
second
um sure but in terms of you touched on
it a bit earlier in terms of actually
getting the right keywords you mentioned
you don't necessarily it's a little bit
similar with SEO right you don't
necessarily want to go for something
that's got tons and tons of traffic if
it's very generic
um so like you mentioned earlier maybe
it's payroll software it's like the
generic keyword but then if you go I
don't know pay well software for
contractors or payroll software for
financial companies when you start
niching it down the long tail keyword
specific to your industries you're going
after you'll notice that it has less
competition might have way less search
volume but if it's niche down to your
offer that could be a good thing there's
less competitors and the people that are
searching for our ideal clients perhaps
um but what are some of your kind of
tips when it comes to actually assigning
those keywords that you want to go after
for a campaign
yeah so I've kind of been refining the
um keyword research process I'd be
curious what you guys do on the organic
side but like what I typically will do
and kind of how I've been trained and
iterated on it is going after on the
paid search side going after high intent
terms so like we talked about an example
you just shared Sam like you know that's
a perfect example where it's like
payroll
um payroll software for contractors like
a a term that's specific that matches
like the search intent that we want so
you know on paid search what you're
looking for is uh looking for people
that are actively in Market looking for
your solution like you could go after
that term just like
um you know payroll for contractors and
just like you know that might be someone
like or like what is payroll contractor
software someone might be looking for
that and that's like informational which
has its value on the paid search side I
think it's really about going after the
higher intent terms of someone that you
know has the characteristics of being
actively in market and so basically with
that lens in mind
um to figure out the keywords they'll do
a couple things the first will be uh
just like you know me being an external
partner and when I was in-house decided
to do it uh as well is talk with subject
matter experts and actually you know if
we can talk to customers that's even
better or even prospects whoever figure
out what would they search if they were
looking for our solution I think that's
the best place to start it's the lowest
lift so I start with that the second
thing I'll do is I'll look at what some
close competitors are already bidding on
for their paid search strategy that's
not to say that they're correct in what
they're going after they're just trying
to figure it out like you are but I
think that's a good starting point
especially if there are more established
competitors because they've had more
time to try to flush us out and figure
it out so I start with that primary
research is one two is like the
competitor research and then three is
kind of a combination of both where you
need to like iterate on what you learn
from those two steps and do your own
research so go into some keyword tools
and you can start with Google Keyword
Planner you can use ahrefs semra spyfu
there's a ton of tools but you can just
try to figure out you know what are some
other terms or variations that we might
be able to go after that match that
bucket of being high intent that we
talked about at the beginning and take
the information we learned from steps
one and two of like primary research and
then like competitor research and what
are some different variations we can
have so when you have those three that I
feel like gives you a really strong
Foundation to like iterate on going
forward
got it makes sense in terms of actually
the customer research part
any tips for what you like to do there
for actually understanding from
prospects client idle customers
themselves on what they might search
I mean the it's to be honest it's a
process that I think is one of the
hardest things in marketing even though
it sounds the easiest because the reason
I say that I think the easiest thing
everyone will do and what I'll do is
like I'll ask the internal team what do
we think people would search for when
they're looking for us and you'll get a
set of answers which I think is a good
start but on like the Prospect and a
customer side there's a couple different
ways I've gone about it in the past
um a good way that I've done recently is
um you know I come from background at
refined labs this is something that we
would um you know advise clients to do
we're just asking like how
um how did you hear about us and in
those results especially for uh SAS
businesses I've been working with that
are higher on the Google side or Google
search side in terms of like inbounds
people will actually type in exactly
what they searched so it might be a
little bit different than what you see
in like your system like in HubSpot or
whatever without type in like I googled
this term to find you guys and you were
the first result I found like they'll
like give that feedback so that's one
um that's another way so it's like
internal feedback it's like how did you
hear about us then when you're actually
like talking to like a customer or
Prospect that's like a more nuanced like
customer interview where you set aside
time with them and say Hey you know I
want to talk about this list of things
maybe you offer them incentive maybe
they're a successful customer and
they're willing to do it for free but
then you just ask them and you just ask
them you say hey what would you search
for how would you describe us is if
you're gonna describe us to a colleague
or if you're going to search for us at
Google so I think those are like three
things that um I've done Sam I don't
know what you guys do on the organic
side that's typically how I'll start on
the paid side
asking customers yeah yeah asking
customers prospects how they describe
your solution and the most commonly
said items from those prospects is
always good because that's literally the
words coming out of their mouth and if
if you're constantly getting the same
feedback then you know that's probably
something you want to go after
um that's that's always a good one I
found but yeah those other tips are nice
like like you say if you are asking
people how they heard about you and
you're you're leveraging those as well
because you know they work that's that's
a good one
um
in terms of let's say we've now we've
drilled down on the The Search terms
that we want to Target but we want to
set up a solid foundation and let's say
we're happy we understand that setting
up a new paid ad um a new paid search
campaign a lit a part of it's going to
be experimentation because what works
for a competitor might not necessarily
work for us
um but are there any foundations that
you should set down to put yourself in
the best standing so even if you are
going in with a hypothesis I.E we've
done research and we reckon we can
probably acquire a demo for this cost
but what needs to be in play before you
start splashing your cash
um so it's more of a
uh let's say a hedge bet it's a more of
a sensible bet than just chucking your
cash into ads and hoping for the best
splashing the cash I like that yeah
um
so I think the foundational things that
I would recommend you have in place
because if you break down a paid search
campaign right you have a couple
components on the paid search side a
couple components on your website and
then a couple components for tracking
and Reporting so on the search side you
have you know the kind of foundational
things you need to get in place there
where you know do we are we what kind of
keywords are we going after what type of
match types are we doing
um and then there's like the ad itself
so getting somebody to click so you
figure out okay
what keywords we're going to go after
then we got to figure out the ad how do
we get somebody to click like what's
going to be compelling copy there
and then once you get them to click and
there's all those you know fundamentals
in platform that you've got to get in
place as well like bidding negative
keywords locations all that stuff
but then once you get somebody to click
on your ad and they land on your uh
website or landing page how do you
convert them and so I think a
foundational thing there is you know on
that landing page and on the rest your
website having messaging that's relevant
having good quality social proof uh
being clear over clever but still being
compelling which I think is a tricky
balance to be clear but compelling
um so having the tight landing page and
then uh when they do convert being able
to track it right like don't just start
a campaign because you need to have a
campaign like no okay when somebody
comes in this is the next step they will
you know the thank you page after
they've submit the demos they're going
to book a calendar meeting with a sales
rep or you know the next step is the
sales team will get this notification
and they'll follow up and we'll track it
using this report and building this out
so not that you have to have everything
done before you start but to your point
on the hedged bet you do need to have a
system in place to track and report on
how efficient and how uh you know how
efficiently these leads are moving
through the funnel so that would be like
the fundamentals that I'd see in my eyes
Sam
got it got it yeah some nice tips
um
and in terms of
targeting
are there any we've talked about going
after like Niche long tail searches High
intent searches Etc are there any lesser
known ad strategies that you've done I
mean we've had a few guests on here that
have shared some cheeky ideas but
they're only unusual ones that perhaps
companies have often overlooked that
you'd like to occasionally recommend
I mean I know there's a lot of stuff you
can do on the paid search side like you
can do some you know audience different
like audience targeting strategies
um on the paid search side with like
observation audiences and switching them
to targeting uh I know a lot of people
are in b2br experimenting with
um like different like performance Max
campaigns or doing broad keywords and
kind of leaning into uh Google's Google
searches uh you know kind of like
algorithmic bidding and smart bidding
but I think for me Sam like I I think
the
I think a lot of companies could stand
to just benefit from executing on the
fundamentals I think like that's the
Lesser known thing because everybody is
looking to try the next different hack
or you know way I 10x my results doing
this when in reality I think of a lot of
companies just broke it down to the
fundamentals we were just talking about
where it's like get someone to go after
the right keywords set up your campaigns
right get someone to click on your ad
convert them and track them like five
simple things that really a lot of
companies not for like lack of trying
but like don't even have those five
things in place so it's kind of like a
nail it before you scale it type thing
where I think focus on those five things
and then you can kind of like iterate on
a couple of those things I mentioned
just here
gotcha yeah yeah yeah that's that's fair
now landing pages
should all paid search campaigns have a
dedicated landing page can do you think
we can send people to a general website
or a home page
um because I've seen like everything and
anything right and I'm sure you're the
same some people just send people to a
generic product page other saying send
everyone to their home page some
companies will have dedicated landing
pages for almost each and every offer
some will have Pages comparing them to
their competitors like the list is
almost endless right and the the amount
of creativity and testing that you can
do with landing pages is again almost
endless depending on how detailed you
want to go at it
um what are some some of your tips on
that side of things
yeah that's a good question so landing
pages I think come down to a couple of
things so it depends on the type of
campaign you're running right like if
you're running a brand campaign sure you
could probably send someone from the
brand campaign to your homepage because
they're looking for your brand
uh if you're running like a kind of a
non-branded high intent campaign you're
going to want to probably send them to a
product page but a product page that
matches the search intent of what they
have right so for example say if you
sell construction software and you know
the search term is construction
reporting software well you want to send
them to a page that is about their
reporting and how you're you know uh
product solves that issue or does like
reporting right but if they ask for you
know like going on that payroll example
I don't know why I'm really tied up with
payroll because I I had I had a demo of
Gusto over the weekend trying to get my
stuff set up so I'm just I'm on payroll
today
um
but no it's not like you know if
someone's looking for Construction
payroll software well you wouldn't want
to send them to the Daily reporting
software page you want to send them to
something about payroll so I mean I
think it it's a again a resource
question of like how strategic do we
want to be like can we support having
all these one-to-one Pages if they're
not already built out if we can great
it's going to be more relevant if we
can't then how do we create you know
like a good landing page experience for
um you know prospects that are clicking
through onto our site but I think in
terms of like building out like
one-to-one Pages it just depends on the
strategy right like if your strategy is
like well we want to go after these
informational terms to have people
download some content that's relevant to
like you know the top of the funnel then
that might be a good strategy for you
um but I think it all comes down to just
you want to match the search intent of
what you're going after it's like you
talked about like for a competitor
campaign if you're bidding on a
competitor's keyword you shouldn't just
send the you know Prospect your home
page it should probably be a camp a page
comparing you directly to that
competitor is going to get you the best
results at the end of the day like paid
search is pretty expensive and you want
to make sure you're maximizing those
dollars
um when you're spending them got it
got it on that note
paid search can be very expensive
wouldn't it be better to just invest in
a review site that already ranks well on
Google and has a decent amount of
traffic I G2 capped error
um clutch depending on your category
wouldn't that be a cheaper fast bet for
some companies
yeah I mean it goes down to like the
Strategic bets right where it's like you
know if you are in the SMS texting
software space and there's
um you know so many different vendors in
that space and there's a ton of search
volume on captera captera BET might be a
really good bet to go after and to see
like because it's the same principle
where it's like it's just a different
type of search engine in a way where
people are going after
um the review sites and it's a PPC game
so you just said hey here's my bid
here's what I'm going to do to try to
bid and get to the top and so 100 I
think that can be a really smart thing
especially on like the services side
like you know if you're a Services
business like an agency and you're on
clutch that's probably a smart bet I'm
sure like I don't know what your guys
experience has been there but you know
that's people looking for an agency
looking for what you're doing and they
want to go forward with you know they're
looking for somebody so there's intent
there so I think it makes sense to show
up where there's intent
um yeah yeah I suppose it's kind of
working working out what makes sense
because like you say
the the annoying thing about these
review sites in comparison sites is just
they dominate organic search so whilst
you have to whilst you have to pay them
for a sponsored slot on their site
sometimes like us with clutch and other
sites it's just worth it because they're
they have a colossal amount of traffic
they have a colossal amount of pages
they're organic organic content is
through the roof so for certain Search
terms and certain niches they just rank
so well so sometimes they just make more
sense from a cost per acquisition point
of view
totally yeah no I think you know they're
doing a lot of the heavy lifting and
that's why they can charge to list you
on the site because they're like hey
we've invested in all this
infrastructure so I think it definitely
makes sense and it's one of those things
where just like with paid search I mean
this is kind of like a subset of paid
search but it's like you know say hey
this quarter we're gonna try out captera
we're gonna try out clutch let's you
know put a set amount of budget here's
how we'll measure it here's our plan
let's try it out and see if this can
work for us
yeah yeah and do you think
paid search if the company is in a a
market that has got demand there to
capture because it's established and
people are aware there's a solution for
it and let's say the company
has worked out that there is um
they've got some budget they've they've
kind of done the maths and it's worth it
should paid search be one of your first
go to market strategies like or is it
even your first like let's say you've
got a solid website there that does some
of these things we talk about do you
think paid search is the first route to
Market
I mean I think in terms of the like the
like the bets on I would make first on
the paid side yeah paid search is
definitely up there I think there's two
that I advise strategize and execute for
clients is there's kind of two pieces of
low hanging fruit and I say low hanging
in quotes because I really don't think
there's a lot of low-hanging fruit it's
like just like more a higher probability
bet than uh other pieces but it's like
four Page search we're trying to get in
front of people that are in Market
looking for what you're offering so I
think it makes sense to try to start
there
um and then like because the other piece
I will you know kind of advise and help
companies stand up is like I sound like
the retargeting side on paid social like
hitting people that have already been to
your website but haven't converted yet
staying in front of them there and so
it's kind of like those are the one two
punch I would say it's like let's stand
up retargeting make sure we're in front
of people that are already aware of you
and then let's get in front of people
that aren't aware of you
but um are in market and even if they
don't convert we're going to hit them
with retargeting as well so we're going
to get you know it might have cost us 50
for that cost per click but then we're
going to go and retarget them and hit
them 30 times with ads in the next month
and convert them even though we didn't
convert them on the landing page so I
think it's definitely up there in the
beginning but what I advise clients on
is um they're gonna have to you know if
they have success with paid search
they're gonna need to invest in the
organic side at some point and honestly
the sooner the better because what you
have a much better perspective on than I
do it does take more time on the organic
side typically to start to get like an
organic result going
um and I know like you know if it's a
more Niche term like maybe it's a little
bit sooner time Horizon but eventually
you're going to want to rank organically
for those terms if you can because it's
just going to lower your customer
acquisition costs over time you make
this upfront investment SEO you uh you
know maintain it but then like hopefully
you become less dependent on paid over
time so you can invest that Capital into
other resources or just become more
efficient and profitable
yeah yeah I think
the issue I see is especially with
funded companies B2B Tech often
um SEO is often a hard internal cell
to management to execs
because usually they're used to
they're used to a few things they used
to spending a load of cash on ads
because they can do everything that
we've just talked about and get a
reasonably fast route to Market and
maybe they'll assign some of that to
review sites if relevant they're
probably a sign of chunk of cash to
outbound sales
to hit Target accounts to put to book
some meeting with those those Target
accounts that might not be in market
right now but they know those are
accounts they want to break into
um
and then that's that's probably some of
the way the First Cash lot might get
spent maybe they'll do a few other
pieces maybe link some stuff on LinkedIn
some retargeting Etc but then when you
try and get the internal cell of SEO the
fact that some of these Search terms
might take three months six months or
longer to get ranked for
um that's when it becomes difficult
that's when unless that the people
involved in the process are familiar
with SEO are familiar with Organic
search and how it works and the benefits
then it becomes a very very difficult
internal cell unless you have got
someone from that marketing background
or that has perhaps been a company
before that has benefited from it
I'm not sure if you've seen the same
blade
no I I would say so and I I think what's
tough and I mean this is not even
representative of like uh yes just the
SEO side this is really like a lot of
marketing I think a lot of people
because I see this a lot of time like I
I was on a call with a uh VP of
marketing the other day that was you
know talking about potentially working
together and they were like yeah we've
been burned by a lot of agencies in the
past like we've been burned by our past
two agencies and I think on the SEO side
um some people have like just like been
burned on like the time horizon or like
you know there's there's people out
there on both paid and organic search
that like oversell the timeline and the
impact and then once people get burned
even if it's at a prior company they can
get a little gun shy so I I think that
definitely does happen but I think you
know you have to look at it
strategically and say like this is a
Strategic investment we're gonna make
right like I think you can validate out
a lot of stuff with paid search but the
goal is like not to always be spending
30k a month on Google ads the goal is
like what if we can get that down to 15.
then we could reallocate that 15 into
another higher we could reallocate that
15 into uh creating content into events
into a ton of different stuff and so I
think like that's the lens I definitely
see it what you're talking about Sam but
I think that's the lens like marketing
leaders and Executives have to take is
like okay
I don't always want to be spending this
amount of money on Google Search every
month I want to decrease that over time
so I'm going to you know make a
Strategic investment SEO and I know
it'll take time that's why I have paid
search running because I still have to
hit my results but you know I want to
get that going in the background so I
can become less dependent on the paid
side because I think that's the best
outcome for companies if they can get to
that point
that's it that's it I mean yeah
essentially what you said long term you
can lower your ad spend and I suppose
the good thing about doing paid search
and everything we've discussed is as
well as that you can almost seed out the
opportunities that might work well on
SEO so you can trial out maybe some more
unusual longer tell High intent Niche
specific keywords and if if you're
capturing quite a lot of inquiries quite
a lot of demo requests can sort requests
with those then you might think well
actually that might work really well in
SEO that's definitely one that we're
going to want to add to our list to
Target there and as you mentioned over
time you can reduce your ad spend
um I suppose the other thing is a good
benefit about SEO is
the the fact that you're not paying for
every clip but it's it's Evergreen
content most of the time you're
producing so it's more of a a longer
term asset so if you are building out
like useful service Pages information
Pages product pages blog articles Etc on
your website yes they might take a lot
of work up front to actually put out
generally helpful content answers your
customers questions handles their
objections all that good stuff but
once it starts ranking that that's it
really on the basis that you're putting
out good stuff and that's that's
actually answering matching search
intent
then that content can bring in inbound
for years to come um not just now but
literally months and years to come so
that's that's the thing that's I guess
often overlooked
um the fact that it can just keep
bringing it in
but it's it's got to be it's got to have
that that correct Foundation like you
say it's it's got to be well thought out
yeah I think a lot of it comes down to
you know when I've thought about like
the timeline because a lot of a lot of
people you know like a lot of things in
marketing will just like take time right
like volume and sales like sales honesty
still takes time like you have sales
reps that ramp up like that's why it's a
ramp up period because it takes time to
learn and do that so in the same way
like marketing programs take time to
ramp and like you said SEO might take a
little bit longer to ramp than say a
paid program but that long tail is there
where you're gonna benefit and I think
marketing leaders do no Faults of their
own most the time can kind of fall into
um you know a tough spot where they have
to prioritize the short term
and hit the short-term goals and they
can't make that investment for the long
term because they have to hit the
short-term results and I think that you
know if they if you were to sit down and
say like okay you're going to be in this
role for the next three years at least
so what are the things that you want to
have really humming each year I think
every single Market maybe you talk to
would say I want to get SEO going in
addition to my paid I think it's just a
challenge of saying can I prioritize
that with my current budget because like
the long tails there like it could
totally definitely work help you
decrease ad spend everything we just
talked about yeah yeah yeah exactly what
are your thoughts not gonna name names
but there's a lot of B2B Marketing in
inverted brackets leaders on LinkedIn
saying Google search is going down
hardly anyone uses Google search these
days everyone goes to communities or
dark social or hidden channels that
can't be measured I.E WhatsApp slack
groups Discord whatever you name it
channels aren't directly attributable
um so Google search is becoming less and
less relevant I.E every time I see this
place so I always kick off and give my
two cents um because I don't I'm not
against these channels right to put my
perspective out there I think
communities are awesome I think
educating the market but entertaining
the market around your Niche giving out
valuable advice whether that's media
whether that's podcast content I think
it's great I think it is a great way to
become the go-to in your sector but at
the same time when the when I see these
things I know I get fired up but what
are your thoughts Blake
I think a lot of it
depends on the industry you're in to be
on or excuse me the industry you're
selling into to be honest so I've
um so like my I've right now I you know
have doing bull media full time
um we have about I think we're gonna
have about eight clients as of like next
week and so there's eight clients that
like I'm seeing also in different
Industries
um previously before bold media I worked
in-house at two B2B tech companies one
was a series D selling into the supply
chain Logistics space another one was a
small B2B tech company selling into like
Corrections
um so like here in the states like you
know like uh the justice system and then
at refine labs when I worked there I
worked with six different companies and
some were selling into uh to marketers
some were selling to employer branding
um professionals and then others are
selling like call centers so the reason
I bring all that up is it all depends on
who you're selling to like that
narrative I think is true for a lot of
like B2B SAS and Tech like yeah there's
a lot of people that do slack
communities spend time on LinkedIn but
like when you see who's having success
on LinkedIn it is companies that sell to
sales sell to marketing sell the HR
recruiting
um and then like maybe like sell the
founders like those are like the big
companies like you think of all the ones
that have made a name and done a great
job over the years which rightfully so
but like gong sells the sales drift
sells the marketing refined Labs crushed
it on LinkedIn but they sell the
marketers right and so I think it
depends on who you're selling to because
uh the example I gave earlier like that
how did you hear about us so that
company they sell uh to the contact
center space and they have an
overwhelming
um response on the Google search side
like that's just where people in that
space are searching that's not to say
they're not in communities and on
LinkedIn but a larger proportion of them
come from the Google search side so it
makes sense that they're investing on
the paid search side and organic search
for that so it all really comes down to
who you're selling to because that's
that's the data that you need to go
after so I definitely don't think
um you know SEO is dead by any means and
I think that it is interesting to see
like what will happen with like chat gbt
and all that even though I think think
some of that might be a little overhyped
at this point but it all just depends on
who you're selling to at least that's my
experience Sam
that's possibly one of the best
summaries of it I've ever heard and I'd
never thought of it from that
perspective I've always thought of it
from a like more General perspective I.E
everyone buys like my point of view on
it is is this and I like yours
um everyone's a bit different so some
people like especially in B if you're
buying a big piece of B2B software or a
big B2B service like it's tens of
thousands of pounds or more or dollars
it's not a quick decision
um it's something that you're going to
think about and discuss internally
probably way up two to three options or
so and then slowly make your decision
um so chances are like yeah you might
you might ask referral from your friend
if you're in a community or group you
might ask one person then and you might
get the third vendor from a Google
Search and then you'll weigh them up or
like you say if you're not even in a
community maybe you'll just go to Google
and find three vendors and then weigh
them up like the way everyone does their
business is a bit different so if you're
closing yourself off into like the way
of thinking like I'm gonna go all in my
community is fine but make sure your
ideal clients are actually all in there
before you put all of your eggs into one
basket rather than going multi-channel
um because like we've talked about like
even
Google ads SEO is is put to its best
when you retarget on other platforms
because not everyone converts from their
first visit to your website so really
thinking about how your audience act
where they hang out and where they
behave is just marketing fundamentals
and I really like the point that you
made that most people on LinkedIn are
either sellers marketers HR so that's
why they often agree with these points
of view when you think there's so many
more industry Industries especially in
B2B
yeah I mean like to give you an example
right like um you know I worked uh with
a client and they have they're selling
to like strength to kids Keen coaches
which is like we're hitting them on
LinkedIn
um and we're hitting them on Facebook as
well but they're also like really active
on Twitter
um and so like you know that's a case
where it's like my my specialty and like
what we um go after is LinkedIn Facebook
and uh Google search as well some Bing
search
um and so like my specialty isn't
necessarily on Twitter but that's like a
good viable channel for like Community
for this uh particular client right and
so like they're active on there their
Founders active on there there's
conversations happening
um so it's like the contact centers
being active on Google search that
example I give of you know people being
active on Twitter for strength and
conditioning coaches for college
universities or it's like developers I
know
um historically I haven't marketed your
developers for any clients I've worked
with but I know that they spend a lot of
time on like Reddit maybe like Discord
different things like that so it all
does just come down to like like you
said it's marketing fundamentals it's
like where are your uh where are your
ideal clients at and how are they
searching because on the other on the
flip side I think what we're talking
about here is like uh you know like uh
what's the right term for like National
SEO or like Global SEO not like local
SEO right oh for sure yeah because like
on the flip side which I know this isn't
the focus here but like the flip side
like local SEO like a hundred percent
ebony company that's local should be
prioritizing local SEO because like
people are searching for a vendor near
them but that's all because you know
you're focusing on your ideal client so
if I am you know living wherever here I
am in Cleveland Ohio and if I'm looking
for a roofer like I'm gonna search
Roofing Company Cleveland Ohio so it's
just a different buying motion when
you're you know doing something local
versus National so it all just comes
back down to fundamentals and knowing
how to apply them and how to take take
what's good from what you learn and see
on LinkedIn but also be like I also need
to focus on what does this mean for my
specific organization in Market I think
is the takeaway yeah yeah yeah and do
you think that Google ads work better
when SEO is being run
I.E if someone searches for what you do
or searches for your solution or similar
or even a branded search and they see
both an ad and an organic listing do you
think that's that's something that's
worth going for or do you think people
these days ignore organic ignore ads or
place more importance in organic or what
are your thoughts around that
I mean I think it depends if you're
ranking highly on the organic side for a
lot of
um those like higher intent terms I
would think about not running ads there
and then if you see a decrease in
performance like maybe you know you like
you pulse it you try it for a month you
stop it for a month compare the two
performance wise
um but I I think at the end of the day
right it depends on what you're
prioritizing like if you've made the SEO
investment and you're ranking there and
you're prioritizing efficiency as a
business I wouldn't do paid search next
to it but if you're prioritizing growth
over efficiency then 100 I think it
makes sense like let's do paid let's do
organic and then for that review site
let's make sure if they click on that
like we talked about they're really
strong in the serp let's make sure that
we're making at the top there too so it
all just comes down to business
priorities
um and like whether you're looking at
efficiency or growth
got it got it so what what's our bottom
line PPC or sea
both just depends a happy medium yeah
sorry I I should have should have a
spicier take especially on the paid side
I thought you were gonna start the show
with like a sign of SEO and just setting
it a light and burning it and yeah yeah
yeah well you know that that was coming
I had somebody talk me out of it no but
it really just it it comes down to I
guess both or one or none is actually
going to be my take because just comes
out of business fundamentals like we
talked about like what makes sense for
you for your organization and how your
buyers buy that'll guide your strategy
nice one Blake enjoyed the chat sir
appreciate you coming on please do tell
everyone more about how they can connect
with your business connect with you on
LinkedIn and any way you'd like to send
our audience up
yes I appreciate that it's been great
being on
um so I'm pretty let's say relatively
active here on LinkedIn so if you wanna
uh connect with me I'm just uh Blake
strezek old media here on LinkedIn you
can find me uh feel free to DM me
um and then also one thing I do is uh
since I you know went full time into
bull media is I run these things called
office hours so every Friday I have four
15-minute Consulting meet and greet
slots where um you know I talk with like
marketers
um and just like other people anyone
that's like looking for like feedback on
their paid demand gen efforts and I just
try to like provide as much feedback
free Consulting anything I can for them
so if you're interested in that you can
see that on my LinkedIn profile and uh
yeah that's about what I've got Sam
Legend and we'll put all of those links
over in the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing and with that I
want to thank you once again Blake enjoy
the chat
all right likewise I appreciate you man
cheers man and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating or review
on Apple or Spotify is appreciated or if
you're on YouTube or subscribe goes a
long way and with that we'll catch you
on the next one for more no BS B2B
marketing tips and advice to grow your
Revenue catch you on the next one